README.md, before:

# KLua

KLua is a [FFI](https://www.php.net/manual/ru/class.ffi.php)-based [Lua5](https://www.lua.org) library that can be used in both PHP and [KPHP](github.com/VKCOM/kphp).

## Installation

Since this is a FFI library, it needs a dynamic library available during the run time.

Installation steps:

1. Install liblua5 in your system (if you don't have it already)
2. Locate the library file and place in under `./ffilibs/liblua5`
3. Install this composer package to use KLua classes inside your code

Depending on your system, you need to find `liblua.so`, `liblua.dylib`
or `liblua.dll` file. Then you can copy it to the application root `ffilibs` folder
under the `liblua5` name (note: no extension suffixes).

If you're having difficulties locating the library file, use a helper script:

```bash
$ php -f locate_lib.php
note: can't locate liblua5.4, maybe it's not installed
library candidate: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblua5.3.so.0
library candidate: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblua5.3.so

run something like this to make it discoverable (unix):
	mkdir -p ffilibs && sudo ln -s /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblua5.3.so ./ffilibs/liblua5.3
```

Then install the composer library itself:

```bash
$ composer require quasilyte/klua
```

Notes:

* If you want to place library files/links globally, make `./ffilibs` a symlink
* You'll probably want to add `ffilibs/` to your gitignore

## Examples

* [simple.php](examples/1_simple.php) - a simple overview of the API basics
* [phpfunc.php](examples/2_phpfunc.php) - how to bind PHP functions to Lua
* [override_print.php](examples/3_override_print.php) - override Lua `print()` stdlib function
* [limited_stdlib.php](examples/4_limited_stdlib.php) - how to limit the stdlib access to Lua scripts
* [plugin_sandbox.php](examples/5_plugin_sandbox.php) - how to load several plugins without conflicts
* [phpfunc_table.php](examples/6_phpfunc_table.php) - how to create module-like native libraries

Running examples with PHP:

```bash
$ php -d opcache.enable_cli=1\
      -d opcache.preload=preload.php\
      -f ./examples/simple.php
```

Running examples with KPHP:

```bash
# Step 1: compile the example:
$ kphp --mode cli --composer-root $(pwd) ./examples/simple.php
# Step 2: run the binary:
$ ./kphp_out/cli
```

## Quick start

```php
<?php

require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

use KLua\KLua;
use KLua\KLuaConfig;

// For PHP, loadFFI() is called from preload script.
// For KPHP, loadFFI() can be called in the beginning of the script.
if (KPHP_COMPILER_VERSION) { KLua::loadFFI(); }

KLua::init(new KLuaConfig());

KLua::eval('
    function example(x)
        return x + 1
    end
');

var_dump(KLua::call('example', 10)); // => 11
```

Running with PHP:

```bash
$ php -d opcache.enable_cli=1 -d opcache.preload=preload.php -f example.php
float(11)
```

Running with KPHP:

```bash
# Compile
$ kphp --mode cli --composer-root $(pwd) example.php
# Execute
$ ./kphp_out/cli
float(11)
```

## Value conversion

| PHP Type | Lua Type | Operation Cost |
|---|---|---|
| bool | boolean | free |
| int | number | free |
| float | number | free |
| string | string | string data is copied |
| map-like array | table | expensive conversion |
| list-like array | sequence table | expensive conversion |

All conversions are symmetrical, except for the Lua->PHP case of sequence tables.

If `KLuaConfig::pack_lua_tables` is set to `false`, Lua tables will be returned "as is".
If that option is set to `true` (the default), then KLua will try to return Lua sequence
tables as list-like PHP arrays.

Not every PHP value can be converted to a Lua value and vice versa.
Both languages should communicate to each other using the simpler protocols.

If some value can't be converted properly, a special error-like value is produced instead.

```
['_error' => 'error message']
```

## API reference

All `KLua` class methods are static.

`KLua` initialization methods:

* `loadFFI()`
* `init($config)`
* `close()`

`KLua` main methods:

* `eval($code)`
* `evalScript($filename)`
* `setVar($var_name, $value)`
* `getVar($var_name)`
* `registerFunction($func_name, $php_func)`
* `call($func_name, ...$args)`
* `callStaticMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args)`
* `callMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args)`

`KLua` call builder methods:

* `callBuilder($func_name)`
* `staticMethodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key)`
* `methodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key)`

`KLua` utility methods:

* `getStats()`

### KLua::loadFFI

```php
function loadFFI();
```

Perform the `FFI::load()`.

For PHP, call this function from the opcache preload script.

For KPHP, call this function once under the `if (kphp)` condition.

### KLua::init

```php
/**
 * @param KLuaConfig $config - KLua library configuration options
 */
function init($config);
```

`init()` prepares the Lua state and binds it to this class static members.

It's usually only necessary to call this method exactly once.

`KLuaConfig` has public properties that can be modified:

```php
class KLuaConfig {
  public $use_ffi_allocator = true;
  public $pack_lua_tables = true;
  public $lua_max_stack = 1000000;
  public $preload_stdlib = null;
}
```

`$use_ffi_allocator`: whether to use FFI-based allocator (PHP/KPHP memory managers) instead of the default liblua allocator. It's recommended to use FFI-based allocators, but you may need to test what works better for you.

`$pack_lua_tables`: whether this library needs to try converting from Lua conventional array-like tables into PHP list-like arrays. Otherwise it will return arrays as is with 1-based indexing.

`$lua_max_stack`: a value of `LUAI_MAXSTACK` that was used during the liblua compilation. You probably don't need to change this value, unless you compiled Lua with custom options.

`$preload_stdlib`: a list of stdlib library names to preload. A null value (default) means "all libraries". It will result in KLua calling `luaL_openlibs()`. An empty array means "preload nothing". Otherwise it's interpreted as a list of libraries to preload.

### KLua::close

```php
function close();
```

`close()` performs the current Lua state de-initialization.

All memory that is still retained by Lua will be reclaimed.

### KLua::eval

```php
/**
 * @param string $code - Lua code to be executed
 * @return mixed - evaluation result (null for void)
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function eval($code);
```

`eval()` executes a given Lua code and returns its results (if any).

The code being evaluated is not sandboxed, it's up to the caller to
properly prepare this code chunk for being safely executed.

While flexible, `eval()` may not be the most efficient way to do whay you want.
There are some specialized alternatives that should be used in those cases:

* To call a function, consider `call()`, `callStaticMethod`, `callMethod()`
* To get/set a variable, use `getVar()` and `setVar()`

If error occurs during the script parse or execution, an exception is throwed.

`eval()` will return a non-null result for scripts that have a `return` statement.

### KLua::evalScript

```php
/**
 * @param string $filename - Lua script filename
 * @return mixed - evaluation result (null for void)
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function evalScript($filename);
```

`evalScript()` is a convenience wrapper useful for debugging.

It basically forwards the `file_get_content()` results to `eval()`.

If the specified file can't be read, an exception is thrown.

### KLua::setVar

```php
/**
 * @param string $var_name - Lua global variable name
 * @param mixed $value - a PHP value to be assigned to the specified Lua variable
 */
function setVar($var_name, $value);
```

`setVar()` binds a given value to a global Lua variable.

If no such variable exists, it will be created.
If variable already exists, its value will be updated.

### KLua::getVar

```php
/**
 * @param string $var_name - Lua global variable name
 * @return mixed - a Lua variable converted to PHP value
 */
function getVar($var_name);
```

`getVar()` returns the global Lua variable value.

If variable doesn't exist, null is returned.

### KLua::registerFunction

```php
/**
 * @param string $func_name - a name that can be used in Lua to reference $fn
 * @param callable():mixed - a PHP function that can be called from Lua
 */
function registerFunction0($func_name, $fn);

/**
 * @param string $func_name - a name that can be used in Lua to reference $fn
 * @param callable(mixed):mixed - a PHP function that can be called from Lua
 */
function registerFunction1($func_name, $fn);

/**
 * @param string $func_name - a name that can be used in Lua to reference $fn
 * @param callable(mixed,mixed):mixed - a PHP function that can be called from Lua
 */
function registerFunction2($func_name, $fn);

// ... and also registerFunction3 and registerFunction4
```

The bound PHP functions should respect these rules:

* Depending on the params count, appropriate register function should be used
* A function should return a Lua-convertible value
* A PHP function that is called from Lua should never throw an exception

When PHP function is called from Lua, all arguments are converted following
the conversion rules described previously. Registered PHP function receives
the values that are already converted.

Example:

```php
KLua::registerFunction2('phpconcat', static function ($x, $y) {
    return $x . $y;
});
```

### KLua::call

```php
/**
 * @param string $func_name - Lua global function name
 * @param mixed[] $args - PHP values to be passed as Lua function arguments
 * @return mixed - a Lua function call result converted to PHP value
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function call($func_name, ...$args);
```

Every function call argument should be a Lua-convertible value.

The Lua function results are returned as follow:

* For 0 results, null is returned
* For 1 result, this result is returned
* For more than 1 results, an array of results is returned

`call()` throws an exception if something goes wrong.

### KLua::callStaticMethod

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @param mixed[] $args - PHP values to be passed as Lua function arguments
 * @return mixed - a Lua function call result converted to PHP value
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function callStaticMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `call()`, but the function is searched inside a table.

The table itself is not passed as an argument to that method.
In other words, it behaves like `$table_name.$table_key($args...)`.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::callMethod

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @param mixed[] $args - PHP values to be passed as Lua function arguments
 * @return mixed - a Lua function call result converted to PHP value
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function callMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `call()`, but the function is searched inside a table.

Passes the table as a first parameter of the method.
In other words, it behaves like `$table_name:$table_key($args...)`.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::callBuilder

```php
/**
 * @param string $func_name - Lua global function name
 * @return ?KLuaCallBuilder - a Lua call builder
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function callBuilder($func_name);
```

`callBuilder()` returns a Lua call builder that can be used to construct and execute
a complex function call expression.

Using the builder, you can avoid some PHP->Lua and Lua->PHP conversion.
This is not a purely optimization matter. Some values can't be converted
between the two languages, so there should be an alternative API that makes
it possible to use raw Lua values while calling Lua functions.

If `$func_name` doesn't exist, null is returned.

### KLua::staticMethodCallBuilder

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @return KLuaMethodCallBuilder - a Lua call builder
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function staticMethodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `callBuilder()`, but for static method calls.

If `$table_name` or `$table_name->$table_key` doesn't exist, null is returned.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::methodCallBuilder

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @return KLuaMethodCallBuilder - a Lua call builder
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function methodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `callBuilder()`, but for instance method calls.

If `$table_name` or `$table_name->$table_key` doesn't exist, null is returned.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::getStats

```php
/**
 * @return KLuaStats
 */
function getStats();
```

`getStats` returns the information about the currently running Lua instance.

`KLuaStats` object has public properties that can be inspected:

```php
class KLuaStats {
    /** How much memory Lua runtime is using right now. */
    public $mem_usage = 0;

    /** How many bytes Lua runtime allocated up to this point. */
    public $mem_alloc_bytes_total = 0;

    /** How many memory allocations Lua runtime performed up to this point. */
    public $mem_allocs_total = 0;
}
```

After `KLua::close()`, the `$stats->mem_usage` should be 0.

### Call builder API

To make a call using a builder:

1. Get a suitable call builder
    * For functions, use `KLua::callBuilder()`
    * For static methods, use `KLua::staticMethodCallBuilder()`
    * For instance methods, use `KLua::methodCallBuilder()`
2. Push function arguments (if there are any)
3. Use `call()` method to invoke the function
4. Consume or discard the call results (if there are any)

Here is a list of argument pushing routines:

* `pushVar(string $var_name)` adds a Lua variable named `$var_name` to the list
* `pushNil()` adds a `nil` to the list
* `pushBool(bool $v)` adds bool-typed value to the list
* `pushNumber(float $v)` adds a float-typed value to the list
* `pushString(string $v)` adds a string-typed value to the list
* `pushTable(array $v)` adds an array-typed value to the list

If function returns zero results, you may omit the step `(4)`.

Otherwise, the results should be explicitely consumed or discarded.

* `getValue()` returns a single Lua result converted to PHP value
* `getValues(int $n)` returns `$n` Lua results converted to an array of PHP values
* `discardValue()` pops a single Lua result
* `discardValues(int $v)` pops `$n` Lua results
* `assignVar(string $var_name)` assigns a signle Lua result to a Lua variable named `$var_name`

Here is a simple example:

```php
// $result = math.abs($x)
$result = KLua::staticCallBuilder('math', 'abs')
    ->pushNumber($x)
    ->call()
    ->getValue();
```

You should not retain the builder object reference.
Both builder and result objects are re-used internally, to avoid allocations.
KLua provides a builder pattern API to make it more convenient,
but you can't really use it beyond a single call construction.

Commit message:

readme: explain when `KLua::close()` should be used

README.md, after:

# KLua

KLua is a [FFI](https://www.php.net/manual/ru/class.ffi.php)-based [Lua5](https://www.lua.org) library that can be used in both PHP and [KPHP](github.com/VKCOM/kphp).

## Installation

Since this is a FFI library, it needs a dynamic library available during the run time.

Installation steps:

1. Install liblua5 in your system (if you don't have it already)
2. Locate the library file and place in under `./ffilibs/liblua5`
3. Install this composer package to use KLua classes inside your code

Depending on your system, you need to find `liblua.so`, `liblua.dylib`
or `liblua.dll` file. Then you can copy it to the application root `ffilibs` folder
under the `liblua5` name (note: no extension suffixes).

If you're having difficulties locating the library file, use a helper script:

```bash
$ php -f locate_lib.php
note: can't locate liblua5.4, maybe it's not installed
library candidate: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblua5.3.so.0
library candidate: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblua5.3.so

run something like this to make it discoverable (unix):
	mkdir -p ffilibs && sudo ln -s /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/liblua5.3.so ./ffilibs/liblua5.3
```

Then install the composer library itself:

```bash
$ composer require quasilyte/klua
```

Notes:

* If you want to place library files/links globally, make `./ffilibs` a symlink
* You'll probably want to add `ffilibs/` to your gitignore

## Examples

* [simple.php](examples/1_simple.php) - a simple overview of the API basics
* [phpfunc.php](examples/2_phpfunc.php) - how to bind PHP functions to Lua
* [override_print.php](examples/3_override_print.php) - override Lua `print()` stdlib function
* [limited_stdlib.php](examples/4_limited_stdlib.php) - how to limit the stdlib access to Lua scripts
* [plugin_sandbox.php](examples/5_plugin_sandbox.php) - how to load several plugins without conflicts
* [phpfunc_table.php](examples/6_phpfunc_table.php) - how to create module-like native libraries

Running examples with PHP:

```bash
$ php -d opcache.enable_cli=1\
      -d opcache.preload=preload.php\
      -f ./examples/simple.php
```

Running examples with KPHP:

```bash
# Step 1: compile the example:
$ kphp --mode cli --composer-root $(pwd) ./examples/simple.php
# Step 2: run the binary:
$ ./kphp_out/cli
```

## Quick start

```php
<?php

require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

use KLua\KLua;
use KLua\KLuaConfig;

// For PHP, loadFFI() is called from preload script.
// For KPHP, loadFFI() can be called in the beginning of the script.
if (KPHP_COMPILER_VERSION) { KLua::loadFFI(); }

KLua::init(new KLuaConfig());

KLua::eval('
    function example(x)
        return x + 1
    end
');

var_dump(KLua::call('example', 10)); // => 11
```

Running with PHP:

```bash
$ php -d opcache.enable_cli=1 -d opcache.preload=preload.php -f example.php
float(11)
```

Running with KPHP:

```bash
# Compile
$ kphp --mode cli --composer-root $(pwd) example.php
# Execute
$ ./kphp_out/cli
float(11)
```

## Value conversion

| PHP Type | Lua Type | Operation Cost |
|---|---|---|
| bool | boolean | free |
| int | number | free |
| float | number | free |
| string | string | string data is copied |
| map-like array | table | expensive conversion |
| list-like array | sequence table | expensive conversion |

All conversions are symmetrical, except for the Lua->PHP case of sequence tables.

If `KLuaConfig::pack_lua_tables` is set to `false`, Lua tables will be returned "as is".
If that option is set to `true` (the default), then KLua will try to return Lua sequence
tables as list-like PHP arrays.

Not every PHP value can be converted to a Lua value and vice versa.
Both languages should communicate to each other using the simpler protocols.

If some value can't be converted properly, a special error-like value is produced instead.

```
['_error' => 'error message']
```

## API reference

All `KLua` class methods are static.

`KLua` initialization methods:

* `loadFFI()`
* `init($config)`
* `close()`

`KLua` main methods:

* `eval($code)`
* `evalScript($filename)`
* `setVar($var_name, $value)`
* `getVar($var_name)`
* `registerFunction($func_name, $php_func)`
* `call($func_name, ...$args)`
* `callStaticMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args)`
* `callMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args)`

`KLua` call builder methods:

* `callBuilder($func_name)`
* `staticMethodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key)`
* `methodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key)`

`KLua` utility methods:

* `getStats()`

### KLua::loadFFI

```php
function loadFFI();
```

Perform the `FFI::load()`.

For PHP, call this function from the opcache preload script.

For KPHP, call this function once under the `if (kphp)` condition.

### KLua::init

```php
/**
 * @param KLuaConfig $config - KLua library configuration options
 */
function init($config);
```

`init()` prepares the Lua state and binds it to this class static members.

It's usually only necessary to call this method exactly once.

`KLuaConfig` has public properties that can be modified:

```php
class KLuaConfig {
  public $use_ffi_allocator = true;
  public $pack_lua_tables = true;
  public $lua_max_stack = 1000000;
  public $preload_stdlib = null;
}
```

`$use_ffi_allocator`: whether to use FFI-based allocator (PHP/KPHP memory managers) instead of the default liblua allocator. It's recommended to use FFI-based allocators, but you may need to test what works better for you.

`$pack_lua_tables`: whether this library needs to try converting from Lua conventional array-like tables into PHP list-like arrays. Otherwise it will return arrays as is with 1-based indexing.

`$lua_max_stack`: a value of `LUAI_MAXSTACK` that was used during the liblua compilation. You probably don't need to change this value, unless you compiled Lua with custom options.

`$preload_stdlib`: a list of stdlib library names to preload. A null value (default) means "all libraries". It will result in KLua calling `luaL_openlibs()`. An empty array means "preload nothing". Otherwise it's interpreted as a list of libraries to preload.

### KLua::close

```php
function close();
```

`close()` performs the current Lua state de-initialization.

All memory that is still retained by Lua will be reclaimed.

If you don't call `close()` yourself, it will be called during the script shutdown automatically.

You don't have to call it yourself, but if you application does a lot of work and Lua scripting is a very isolated and short portion of its workflow, you may want to close Lua runtime in order to reclaim the memory it was using.

### KLua::eval

```php
/**
 * @param string $code - Lua code to be executed
 * @return mixed - evaluation result (null for void)
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function eval($code);
```

`eval()` executes a given Lua code and returns its results (if any).

The code being evaluated is not sandboxed, it's up to the caller to
properly prepare this code chunk for being safely executed.

While flexible, `eval()` may not be the most efficient way to do whay you want.
There are some specialized alternatives that should be used in those cases:

* To call a function, consider `call()`, `callStaticMethod`, `callMethod()`
* To get/set a variable, use `getVar()` and `setVar()`

If error occurs during the script parse or execution, an exception is throwed.

`eval()` will return a non-null result for scripts that have a `return` statement.

### KLua::evalScript

```php
/**
 * @param string $filename - Lua script filename
 * @return mixed - evaluation result (null for void)
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function evalScript($filename);
```

`evalScript()` is a convenience wrapper useful for debugging.

It basically forwards the `file_get_content()` results to `eval()`.

If the specified file can't be read, an exception is thrown.

### KLua::setVar

```php
/**
 * @param string $var_name - Lua global variable name
 * @param mixed $value - a PHP value to be assigned to the specified Lua variable
 */
function setVar($var_name, $value);
```

`setVar()` binds a given value to a global Lua variable.

If no such variable exists, it will be created.
If variable already exists, its value will be updated.

### KLua::getVar

```php
/**
 * @param string $var_name - Lua global variable name
 * @return mixed - a Lua variable converted to PHP value
 */
function getVar($var_name);
```

`getVar()` returns the global Lua variable value.

If variable doesn't exist, null is returned.

### KLua::registerFunction

```php
/**
 * @param string $func_name - a name that can be used in Lua to reference $fn
 * @param callable():mixed - a PHP function that can be called from Lua
 */
function registerFunction0($func_name, $fn);

/**
 * @param string $func_name - a name that can be used in Lua to reference $fn
 * @param callable(mixed):mixed - a PHP function that can be called from Lua
 */
function registerFunction1($func_name, $fn);

/**
 * @param string $func_name - a name that can be used in Lua to reference $fn
 * @param callable(mixed,mixed):mixed - a PHP function that can be called from Lua
 */
function registerFunction2($func_name, $fn);

// ... and also registerFunction3 and registerFunction4
```

The bound PHP functions should respect these rules:

* Depending on the params count, appropriate register function should be used
* A function should return a Lua-convertible value
* A PHP function that is called from Lua should never throw an exception

When PHP function is called from Lua, all arguments are converted following
the conversion rules described previously. Registered PHP function receives
the values that are already converted.

Example:

```php
KLua::registerFunction2('phpconcat', static function ($x, $y) {
    return $x . $y;
});
```

### KLua::call

```php
/**
 * @param string $func_name - Lua global function name
 * @param mixed[] $args - PHP values to be passed as Lua function arguments
 * @return mixed - a Lua function call result converted to PHP value
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function call($func_name, ...$args);
```

Every function call argument should be a Lua-convertible value.

The Lua function results are returned as follow:

* For 0 results, null is returned
* For 1 result, this result is returned
* For more than 1 results, an array of results is returned

`call()` throws an exception if something goes wrong.

### KLua::callStaticMethod

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @param mixed[] $args - PHP values to be passed as Lua function arguments
 * @return mixed - a Lua function call result converted to PHP value
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function callStaticMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `call()`, but the function is searched inside a table.

The table itself is not passed as an argument to that method.
In other words, it behaves like `$table_name.$table_key($args...)`.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::callMethod

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @param mixed[] $args - PHP values to be passed as Lua function arguments
 * @return mixed - a Lua function call result converted to PHP value
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function callMethod($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `call()`, but the function is searched inside a table.

Passes the table as a first parameter of the method.
In other words, it behaves like `$table_name:$table_key($args...)`.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::callBuilder

```php
/**
 * @param string $func_name - Lua global function name
 * @return ?KLuaCallBuilder - a Lua call builder
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function callBuilder($func_name);
```

`callBuilder()` returns a Lua call builder that can be used to construct and execute
a complex function call expression.

Using the builder, you can avoid some PHP->Lua and Lua->PHP conversion.
This is not a purely optimization matter. Some values can't be converted
between the two languages, so there should be an alternative API that makes
it possible to use raw Lua values while calling Lua functions.

If `$func_name` doesn't exist, null is returned.

### KLua::staticMethodCallBuilder

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @return KLuaMethodCallBuilder - a Lua call builder
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function staticMethodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `callBuilder()`, but for static method calls.

If `$table_name` or `$table_name->$table_key` doesn't exist, null is returned.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::methodCallBuilder

```php
/**
 * @param string $table_name - Lua global variable name (should be table-typed)
 * @param string|int $table_key - a function-typed field name inside selected table
 * @return KLuaMethodCallBuilder - a Lua call builder
 * @throws KLuaException
 */
function methodCallBuilder($table_name, $table_key, ...$args);
```

Like `callBuilder()`, but for instance method calls.

If `$table_name` or `$table_name->$table_key` doesn't exist, null is returned.

Table key can be an integer (for sequence-like tables).

### KLua::getStats

```php
/**
 * @return KLuaStats
 */
function getStats();
```

`getStats` returns the information about the currently running Lua instance.

`KLuaStats` object has public properties that can be inspected:

```php
class KLuaStats {
    /** How much memory Lua runtime is using right now. */
    public $mem_usage = 0;

    /** How many bytes Lua runtime allocated up to this point. */
    public $mem_alloc_bytes_total = 0;

    /** How many memory allocations Lua runtime performed up to this point. */
    public $mem_allocs_total = 0;
}
```

After `KLua::close()`, the `$stats->mem_usage` should be 0.

### Call builder API

To make a call using a builder:

1. Get a suitable call builder
    * For functions, use `KLua::callBuilder()`
    * For static methods, use `KLua::staticMethodCallBuilder()`
    * For instance methods, use `KLua::methodCallBuilder()`
2. Push function arguments (if there are any)
3. Use `call()` method to invoke the function
4. Consume or discard the call results (if there are any)

Here is a list of argument pushing routines:

* `pushVar(string $var_name)` adds a Lua variable named `$var_name` to the list
* `pushNil()` adds a `nil` to the list
* `pushBool(bool $v)` adds bool-typed value to the list
* `pushNumber(float $v)` adds a float-typed value to the list
* `pushString(string $v)` adds a string-typed value to the list
* `pushTable(array $v)` adds an array-typed value to the list

If function returns zero results, you may omit the step `(4)`.

Otherwise, the results should be explicitely consumed or discarded.

* `getValue()` returns a single Lua result converted to PHP value
* `getValues(int $n)` returns `$n` Lua results converted to an array of PHP values
* `discardValue()` pops a single Lua result
* `discardValues(int $v)` pops `$n` Lua results
* `assignVar(string $var_name)` assigns a signle Lua result to a Lua variable named `$var_name`

Here is a simple example:

```php
// $result = math.abs($x)
$result = KLua::staticCallBuilder('math', 'abs')
    ->pushNumber($x)
    ->call()
    ->getValue();
```

You should not retain the builder object reference.
Both builder and result objects are re-used internally, to avoid allocations.
KLua provides a builder pattern API to make it more convenient,
but you can't really use it beyond a single call construction.
